Hey.
OK.
Good, then I think we're complete.
This is something we cannot change.
So Max mentioned that, Kristiyan,
you will be off for today.
So that's why we have this back and forth
and wanted to get this done today.
Sorry for the short notice.
So what are we talking about?
CDC recovery has been finalized.
Before I went to vacation,
the PBIs have been written. All good.
We had to remove ones is fine.
The closed concept, all good.
Automated tests, yeah,
that's been a bit good question all the
time. The other three are refined.
I had a look again against the concept
and the result is that there are some
things we need to discuss.
First one is the scope when we delete,
detect the delete scope.
I had an explicit meeting with Joachim
before I left about the question of
whether or not we need to look at planned
legs at all.
And he confirmed that these are never
deleted or changed afterwards.
So the delete case being special one,
which we need to go through our complete
data set and like check in reverse what
could have potentially changed is the
really the performance critical one of
the flows or cases.
And this reduces the load on the database
on TMS side heavily.
So implementing a retrieve all IDs,
which is how it's currently formulated in
the
PVI can be drastically improved by
skipping the planned ones and just
looking at unplanned ones.
That's the first one.
I think it's rather easy to achieve.
So that's that.
The next one is about...
the watermark, right,
which is the time we use to compare
against.
And.
It says here,
make sure the logic there is filtering by
updated time.
This sounds like it's a simple filter,
but actually it is a bit more special.
Boyan.
Oh yeah,
I had a question about the previous,
But.
the previous topics. Sorry,
can you scroll it up?
OK, sure, sure.
Plus the delete.
Okay, so this is only for the deletion,
right? I mean,
what you what we are discussed. Yeah,
okay.
Yeah, correct. So imagine outage, 3 hours,
I don't know, internet down,
the cloud couldn't reach,
or the on-prem couldn't reach the cloud.
We now need to recover.
We only have to do so for unplanned ones,
because the ones that were planned
when the outage started,
can never be go back to unplanned.
That's the restriction in TMS.
Yeah, but what about changes?
There will be no changes to plan once.
What about?
Over the, I mean, is this correct?
Because, like,
when Max Bizeva showed us like some
operations which he claimed that the
dispatchers do on a daily basis,
like all of those operations he did over
planned shipments already,
and he said that this is a daily use case
for the dispatchers.
So, I mean, once again, just to receive,
we are receiving contradicting
information from different stakeholders.
So which one it is then? I mean,
Oh, this is only for the deletion.
Updates are a separate thing.
basically.
Yeah, this is why I asked,
is this like also for the updates because.
..
I mean,
if we track changes only for own plan
shipments,
then if this is what we just do,
that is expected from us, that's fine.
But.
No, no,
this is detecting deletions and like this
Like...
is totally fine. The first part, I mean,
this is actually like I would expect this
to be to be covered in the follow-up PVIs.
I mean, such stuff, for example,
that we identify that
when detecting deletions and retrieving
these IDs,
it doesn't make sense to check for
unpumped shipments.
Yeah, okay. I mean,
I just want to like to be sure that it's
only for the deletion.
This is why I brought it up.
Yeah, I mean,
that's why we discuss these things.
We need to have all angles on each of the
questions.
On the second topic, if we like, oh,
if you have anything more on the first
What?
Mhm.
one, just go ahead.
I think what I need to say is that many
of the points following are under the
umbrella of load put on the TMS database.
That's usually the ultimate architectural
infrastructural goal. And one,
this tackles that, right? Reduce the load.
because after an outage,
the database would probably be under
heavy load anyway.
So this is targeting that one.
Yeah, now Yosif.
Yeah,
about the this comparison with the dates
and the and the EU time now.
Yeah.
This won't be a problem if we compare.
Oh.
Like,
there are strategies there to compare
essentially you time against you time.
Obviously,
I think at the moment we don't have this
you time on our legs, but if we add this,
if you add this field.
then we would be able to compare pretty
much your time against your time and we
won't have this issue.
We do have your time in our legs. Yeah,
because Chris is using this for the
Yeah.
We do.
Anna.
changes detection. Yeah.
Actually, actually, yes,
I think because like I do remember
considering this. So maybe,
maybe it was there, but yeah,
that's the idea.
If we compare you time against you time,
it doesn't matter the time zones because
it will be the same time zone,
Uh-huh.
essentially.
Back.
Okay, I mean,
I took this from the description of the
PVI, so that's probably why.
It's not clear, so if this is covered,
fine.
But the actual input parameter is missing,
right?
Would you put parameter?
To pass in a watermark.
So imagine the example again,
3 hours outage of one day. Yesterday, 6 A.
m. to today, 7 A.m.
You only want to recover these 26 hours,
Okay.
for example.
Okay, Iliyan.
You pass in a time and date to limit the
time frame where your recovery is made.
So, is this?
present in the PBIs or not?
Will it always do some kind of full sync
without looking at data ranges?
Well,
I think that currently currently is doing
a full sync,
but this is like up for the
implementation to see to see how to
approach this. I mean,
the initial concept was designed not only
around this menu resolution,
but also around the concept
Of potentially running this as a as a as
a full-time scanning service, which,
in this case, like there is no such input,
but like after that we discussed more and
we agreed that this mostly be we are
going to be triggered manually in terms
of this outage recoveries, so...
Yeah, I mean, like,
it could support such watermark and
timestamp to check against a specific
rate range.
Mmhm.
That's totally possible.
Yeah, I mean, will, like,
my question would be, will we have a case,
for example, like,
I see why we have a start date, because,
for example,
let's say we have our latest update in a
certain point, but, like,
is there a case where we want, don't want,
like, to go?
Past a certain point, I mean, just, yeah.
No, I think not. Yeah, yeah.
I think it's only one day which marks the
Yeah.
start, agreed.
And then there was this overlap thought
Mm.
in the concept.
The.
Because we are item-polent on our side,
just add a little overlap to make sure
you cover bits and pieces,
not on the second level,
but maybe minutes.
To have a little buffer.
Yeah, problematic here, just...
Just when I see your time,
there is always time zones issues. Why?
Because let's say there are update times
in at least it was the case in Postgres.
I see no reason why they would change
this in Oracle,
but basically they give those times.
as time stamps without time zone.
And this is an issue. And in our database,
Yeah.
I think that we currently for the legs,
Chris,
correct me if I'm wrong on this one,
but I think that we are writing our local
time with the time zone at the point.
Where we execute updates over the next,
so this directly causes a time zone issue,
because, like,
if we don't have information about their
time zone,
it's always going to be an assumption
that it's an...
Particular time zone, and then, yeah.
But Bobby,
that's exactly what we discussed before
Yeah.
that on the U time topic. Like,
I think that as long as we like reflect
this U time being updated between
shipments and legs, for example,
a shipment update comes like it could be
the weight or any other field,
obviously the U time.
would have changed as well. Actually,
on every update,
we should expect this U time to be
changed.
So as long as we pass down this U time to
our legs, we could then, I think,
safely compare U times and don't compare
our local times.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, this is this is fine,
but what about the watermark? Like,
how do you like,
how do we decide when the watermark start?
But the watermark,
you get the watermark based on the last
few time that we see in these legs,
not against the last time stamp that we
have updated.
If...
If this is,
if this is like the expectation,
then fine, yeah.
Yeah, I would, I would agree to that.
Actually, the your time,
I think we should double check,
but whenever a shipment update event
comes and we get the your time from the
event itself and we pass it to the Leicht
entity, I think on the database level,
the your time is...
overwritten and the entity saved with our
current local time,
but I'm not sure it should be double
checked.
Yeah, yeah,
this is the case I think right now,
but like what Yosif idea is is probably
just to keep like the shipment updated
time as a separate field as well.
Exactly.
Because there is a difference if we use
the current field in the Leicht structure
Uh-huh.
for Chris to make the track like lots of
dates and like it should be a local time
Yeah.
because this is like how we are working
with it.
But basically like if if you want to
track those changes and have like let's
say.
information what is the latest change we
have reflected in our internal DB.
I mean we should keep also the updated U
time column from the shipments in our.
In the next table, as well.
Yeah,
the the idea is the idea is to have a
field that has this uh this uh.
This.
The ability, I would say, or whatever,
in terms of comparing dates,
the idea is just to derive this U time
from the shipment entity,
so later we can we can reuse it to
compare safely.
Uh-huh.
Team.
Good.
I think let's move on here to the time.
Next one was again about the load we put
on the TMS database and the concept this
is listed.
And different mitigations were discussed.
I know this is not.
probably missing a final decision and
it's also dependent on a discussion.
I still need to lead with DMS about if
there are any rules or constraints or
limitations we need to consider here when
running larger
a recovery runs. For example, in the PBI,
we also say that we need to investigate
how we parallelize this.
If we run too much in parallel,
we probably put a single TMS database
under too much load. So I wanted to
bring this up again and make raise the
awareness that we probably have some
differentiation here to do.
Yosif.
Yes,
but in terms of the parallel branch
processing against against the sequential
branch processing,
actually it doesn't really matter in
terms of the lot that has been put,
because each branch is a different TMS
database, different
On-premise resource, so...
It doesn't matter if we if we make this
request in parallel or sequentially,
because we are hitting physically
different databases.
Yeah, that's not what I'm talking about.
I'm rather talking about,
do we need to rate limit something when
we call single databases?
Or is it fine to select all Sandung
records at once, et cetera?
These kind of things.
Or do we need to batch select them in
batches of 10, 100, or thousands?
I'm really in the single connection
scenario, not cross-branch.
See.
Well, because I can see the point,
the second point on the bullet above
saying the sequential branch processing
instead of parallel,
then below I see the sentence that about
the without the counterweight that
parallel branch processing conflicts with
TMS vote.
Detection,
these two sentences doesn't make sense;
that's why I brought them up in terms of,
in terms of the other stuff that you say
about the rate limiting, batching,
and so on, like usually like...
Rate limiting is not really is not really
being implemented on the caller side.
That's from one side and from the other
side. I mean,
I do understand that that we are somehow
putting pressure on the TMS databases,
but knowing the full context,
knowing about the cloud for work,
knowing about other parts of our
applications, such as.
detecting the changes and so on. And like,
I'm not sure that it actually makes sense
to complicate this that much,
at least up until the point that we see
that there's some actual issue exactly
with this mechanism. I mean,
because we for like,
if we want this for the go live.
Something like this,
I think we'll just just put a lot of
overhead,
like my suggestion is is just I guess try
it out and see if there there's some some
issues and and only then only then
Yeah.
improve.
Because otherwise, otherwise we risk,
we risk to just...
Also.
Premature optimization.
Um, complicated, complicated A lot.
Yeah, all good.
Then I can take that into the discussion
with them and just say, hey,
we're not going to do any of this.
It's going to be, yeah, just plain select.
Also,
one very also another thing that that is
very,
very relevant about this topic is that
this would actually make a lot more sense
if we wanted to go with this full-time
running service that do that does these
scans every five seconds, 2 seconds,
3 seconds.
But right now we are talking about an
outage recovery and something that will
happen rarely and probably will be around
just once to sync.
So especially in this context,
I don't find this.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Well, that's good.
Nice.
The next one,
the question of which source SQL object
we use.
In the main concept,
we talked about access to send them
directly all the time.
However,
is it is a direct call implemented in the
bridge? Do we need it? Is it planned?
I wasn't aware of where we stand there.
Um...
Or do we need these views that have
further logic on them,
which probably is unnecessary in the
recovery moment?
When?
Well, before I sorry, Bobby,
before I just let the word to Boyan,
Ohh, sorry.
I think it was actually,
wasn't it me and you Matthias that we
that we measured the difference when we
are executing this was this was because
this was most mostly for detecting
deletions, if I'm not mistaken.
And we noticed that when you try to
retrieve this all of these shipment IDs,
Uh-huh.
obviously filtered for the for the
endpoint legs,
it was taking way less time when we were
executing the query directly against the
sending table.
That's why it was there.
Uh.
Yeah.
Now, if this is some kind of a big issue,
this is also fine because this is again
Yeah.
more relevant if we want to have this as
a full time running service.
Because if we just give this for the for
the outage recovery,
like given that this is going to be
triggered.
only accidentally.
This means that we can just allow
ourselves to be a bit more slower.
It doesn't make sense.
We don't need them to have this query
running under a second.
It would be fine if it runs for 10
seconds because it's a one-time thing. So.
Yeah.
So if we have any kind of issue around
doing queries directly against the
Agreed.
sending table,
we could potentially work around this and
accept the performance hit while using
the views.
Yeah, I mean, Bobby, you were first.
Maybe you go now.
Yeah, yeah, I mean,
like Yosif partially covered what I what
I wanted to say, basically,
like we are not calling the index table
directly from TMS right now,
we are just consuming the events which
are coming from the index table, like,
generally speaking, like if we need...
To make this call, we can make this call,
but right now I I don't see why we will
need it. Basically, like the objects,
I think I mean I haven't checked Yosif
POC branch,
but I mean I would assume that he's using
the generation objects we have and the
resolvers we have like for the CDC right
now, so basically like...
Those, I think, are working with the,
like,
at least the initial generators are
working with the VD shipment, yeah,
with the VD shipment, I mean,
doesn't make sense because they, I mean,
it doesn't matter because both of the
views have the exactly the same, I think,
structure, so it should be fine.
It should define like if we use like
whatever we choose basically from both.
And just to say that currently, like for,
let's say,
the initial population of legs and lots
takes no more than that most I have seen
it run for 8,
9 seconds at most for two branches,
let's say. So this is.
Yeah.
executing insert operations which are
basically slow operations. So yeah,
I mean, it's behaving well enough.
If we notice that the performance is that
big of a problem,
we can always implement the code to the
Sendux table and properly map the fields
afterwards, but.
Yeah,
and it also makes sense that what Yosif
mentioned,
that the same looks table is way quicker.
It's quicker because, like,
it doesn't have any functions which run
inside, at least in Postgres,
those views have functions running in
them,
and it's causing a performance issue, so..
.
Mmh.
All right, yeah,
just wanted to be clear here,
because this is also some more additional
load not required for the GM database,
but good.
It's probably fine to keep it like that.
Next one.
was about transactional borders.
It just says here,
after we finish updating the shipment,
I just wanted to make sure again that or
ask if it's relevant to get a per
shipment transaction here. And
Somehow.
not lose work successfully done because
one operation fails in the whole batch.
It's probably covered already.
Just wanted to bring this up quickly.
Well, yeah,
I think that it makes more sense to have
Good.
the transaction isolation per shipment,
obviously, because, like,
we want to sync as much as possible, like,
if we want to sync, let's say,
a specific branch and our shipment
syncing fails,
it doesn't make sense to does not.
sync the whole branch.
There is we can go even lower in terms of
transaction isolation.
We can go on filter date level,
but I think that's unnecessary.
This I think will also affect performance
because in theory we could save after we.
sync any of the fields of the shipment.
For example, as you said,
we have a long outage for, let's say,
some hours or so,
and a particular shipment gets updated
multiple times,
so multiple fields have been updated for
this shipment.
We can then go ahead and just...
Update every field on its own for this
shipment, but I think that's too much. So,
I think so, yeah.
so I would say that per shipment
isolation level is the is the.
I think more sensible think maybe like if
the the the outage is big and let's say
some hours a day we need to test how
exactly how exactly this will behave and
we have to let's say sync.
like thousands of shipments across the
branches because this would lead to
thousands of transactions.
I don't think that would be that would be
an issue, but yeah,
I mean the other the other option is to
go to is to go per branch with these
Mm.
transactions or per batch,
let's say updating 200 shipments or
Yeah.
something like that, but again,
I think that's...
That's something that we should address
later if we see that there is an issue.
Ohh.
After all of this is implemented,
we can make some simple tests,
like check that, I mean,
make a use case where all of the
shipments have been updated,
and we have to sync all of them.
run the process and see what happens.
Actually, I think I did that,
if I do remember correctly,
when I made the POC. I think it took like,
for example, I don't know, 20 seconds,
something like that,
for a big amount of records,
but this could be checked again.
Okay.
I don't expect to have issues with this.
Okay, good.
All right, moving on.
I think this one we can skip.
It's really beyond go live.
I think this one we covered already by
accident,
the missing input on the endpoint.
So that is discussed already. Also,
a small thing was that...
This is the first real, not the first,
probably the second real admin only
endpoint.
And we need to make sure it's protected
with some sort of role or something like
that.
Well, if we do this like this,
the same concept applies for the water
And.
and leg generation. I mean,
we could that we could add that,
but again, that's just adding on top of.
Yeah, I mean,
I may sound bureaucratic here,
but these are really the things that...
are crucial in reality.
Someone with access to dispo could run
these things in theory, a normal user.
I just think it's the last 1% finish line
that we should add and it should be a few
lines of code.
Good, uh, then, um...
Let me quickly recap.
That's also probably overcomplicating
things.
Um...
Let's talk about what happens on the
response.
Return enough information,
probably not precise enough. Why is that?
Because someone running the endpoint
needs to know what happened exactly.
So maybe we can talk about this quickly.
I know it's also difficult to talk about.
operations when you don't really have an
operations team.
But maybe this is something we can
improve once a main work is done on these
PBIs,
just to think about what someone would
need in the response. For example,
for partial success.
if we talk about the per shipment
isolation and things like that.
So not really a blocker, I think,
on the first version of this
implementation,
but something you need to keep in mind.
Um...
If you don't have questions,
we can move on.
Good. Sorry,
I just have to quickly talk to my son
here.
Sorry, back.
OK, so Q,
this is probably something we need anyway,
so...
Let's postpone that.
And that one is obviously a gap already
discussed, automated tests.
I don't have an answer for that right now.
And then I added two more PBIs,
but they both fall onto my table.
The first one is have a quick sync with
Nagle again about if this load we put on
the database is fine.
Discussed that already.
And then obviously,
some kind of operations runbook,
how do we behave in this?
middle,
intermediate time after the go live when
we have failures, what's the runbook,
who does what,
who triggers the endpoint with which
parameters, etc. This, I think,
needs to be prepared.
So I created a little PBI for that.
Just one thing before we move on about
this evaluation of the database or team
Aktan.
Yeah.
back, just, I mean, we already covered it,
but really just so that we don't create a
problem for us, which is unnecessary. Now,
this is again,
this is something that is going to be
happening only on an accident.
So to be honest,
I'm not even sure if there's anything to
Yeah.
discuss. I mean,
we are actually what we are running,
when we want to sync for each branch,
we run one query which is returning only
IDs to detect deletions.
And one query to retrieve shipments with
all of its contents, and that's it,
and it's a one-time thing.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
I mean, uh, yeah,
just to to to make sure that we present
this right.
Yeah, that's clear.
Good.
I think the rest we discussed already.
Direct table access. So no,
we discussed that. No PBI needed.
So that said,
I think we've gone through all of them.
And it looks good to me.
Max, I think also good for you, right?
It sounded more than it is,
but it was good to talk about it.
I'll add the...
Yep,
we have identified and approved as a
comment on the PUS, and that's it.
Sounds good to me.
OK, that's good to hear.
Any further questions? If not,
we can close the call and talk tomorrow.
I mean, obviously one more question.
So just how we're going to continue.
Ohh.
Oh.
You finish up and get your approvals of
everything tomorrow and the day after.
Then, basically,
Ivaylo and Chris need to start working on
their PBI thread in sequence.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Meaning, do you already have a plan?
So Ivaylo your PBI is first,
do you have a plan when you can start or
is the pending confirmations dependent on
you starting tomorrow, for example?
Well, actually,
this depends whether there are more
Oracle issues.
I'm currently trying to solve the one
with the other point procedure.
After that,
I should start with the get driver.
We have an issue there as well. And
Yeah, if anything on Dyulgerova pops up,
I believe it's with higher priorities on
this.
Mhm.
Agree.
Yeah.
Do we have anyone else who could start
this except you? So Chris is in vacation,
on vacation, lucky him.
If that is a no, okay.
Then we just need to see when we get this
started.
Yeah.
I mean, it's not, in my opinion,
and please say, no, no, no, you're wrong,
but in my opinion,
this is not a deal breaker for any go
live because it's a recovery feature.
Obviously, we want to recover and
Oh, two hands risen directly.
Yeah,
I think that this is a deal breaker for
the go live because we saw how fragile is
the data stream and the CDC and we don't
have a...
We're not we're not connecting to data
stream.
No, no,
this is this is the backup for data
I feel most.
stream outages, all stream could even,
it doesn't matter, it's CDZ in general.
I mean that even for stream,
although it probably hasn't failed so far,
Yeah.
we don't have any recovery mechanism if
we don't have this, I mean,
in terms of CDC.
If potentially something happens.
With the stream.
Even if we, if we don't like, OK,
we don't release for with the data stream,
but with the stream, sure,
like it hasn't failed us so far, but this,
I don't think that's...
That should be comforting for us,
and I think that we should have a way
defined to.
Get a resolution if something like this
happens.
Boyan.
Definitely,
it would like it would be safer for us
just to know that if something goes up,
goes wrong, I mean, not but wrong,
then we have something just to...
Fire and just have the whole thing are
recovered.
This is like definitely the safer option,
I think.
Once again,
if the question comes down to capacity
and effort, because like, let's say,
I mean,
I was going to say that I can take a look
at it,
but like now we need to take care of like
the load generation rules because this is
preventing like us from starting actual
like bug hunt or testing actual testing
over this new load.
generations through or something.
I see how fast I can tackle this, but...
Yeah, I mean...
I mean, first of all, two things, Max.
Is it relevant for go live?
I have an opinion here. Yes, it is.
I don't want to wake up to a call which
says, hey, we're missing data.
And then I start running around trying to
fix it.
It's like driving a car without airbag.
Yes, it drives. But once it crashes,
you suddenly remember all that.
was not a good idea. That's that.
And Christian explicitly said that he
wants an end-to-end reliable system.
Totally understandable customer request.
So that's that. On the other hand,
regarding capacity.
I've done.NET in the past.
Probably can support here, of course.
It would always be a team effort with
someone reviewing. So question is,
as always, is it?
helping someone if he only has to review?
Or is it better to do it completely on
its own from the beginning?
But I can offer help here, of course.
But I would wait for Monday or so to see
where we stand.
Yeah, let's see how we are tomorrow.
Let's see how far we are with the issues
Yeah.
and with this whole CDC thing.
Uh, yeah, well,
we'll see me probably tomorrow we should
decide how we approach this, I would say.
Because we need to start it at some point,
if not tomorrow, then Friday for sure.
So yeah,
let's see where we stand tomorrow.
No.
Yeah, I mean,
I would say I'm the best person to
advance on this.
The problem is the quad for work and also
there's quite hard over there as well in
terms of capacity, but for sure, like,
I mean, I can also help.
I could either pick up something myself
or actively support whoever picks this up.
So, I think we can we can push it through.
Yeah, let's align.
I just want to say if anyone starts on it,
we should have a pain not to have two
people invest a morning just to find out
we had double work.
And of course,
Cloud for Lock is also a high priority
right now.
Great to have always high priority.
Thank you.
Okay.
So to wrap it up,
I will put the comments from our
decisions into the PBIs.
I will get the task done where we verify
with Nagle once again that the load stuff
is fine,
which closes the oldest one PBI which is
new.
And then we're good to go.
Okay,
then let's hope that Ivaylo is quickly
But.
done tomorrow. And for you, Chris,
enjoy your vacation.
That's it? Yes, no?
Good.
Thanks.
Thanks, everyone.
Have a great end of the day. Bye-bye.
Thank you, guys. Bye.
See you, bye.
Thanks, bye.
But.
Thank you, bye.